# A few things I learned from deploying my first deep learning model

At first I thought I need to learn a lot of theories before begin to deploy deep learning model. And I did learn a lot of theories, I watched lectures, I read articles, I even did some code. But at the end I found I still can't deploy a model. Then I took fastai course, after 2 lessons, I trained and deployed my first deep learning model.

Thanks to researchers and practitioners, we have datasets to do experiments, we have pre-trained models to use, we can train a new model in less than 10 lines code. But I still met a few obstacles, I'll tell you how I solved those problems, if you also want to train and deploy your own model, hope it will be helpful.

First thing I met is my train dataset is not clean enough. I used bing image search to download images from internet. My first try is to discriminate mushrooms, but it turns out some mushrooms are too similar, images mixed with each other, so my training accuracy is just about 70%. Then I change to discriminate dolphin and shark, this time images are much cleaner, training accuracy is about 92%. So you see, training dataset is very important to training model, because models can only reflect the data used to train them, well organised datasets always have better results. If you want your models to service customers, maybe you need better datasets, but for beginner, internet images are good enough.

Then I met a problem to upload my model to github, because github only allow uploads files less than 25mb, but my trained model is about 50mb. So I did some searches, there are two approaches can do this, one is git desktop, another is git-lfs. Git desktop can handel files less than 100mb, git-lfs can handle files more than 100mb. Git desktop is easy to install, it's basically synchronises your local files to online. Git-lfs website is https://git-lfs.github.com/, it requires a few command lines, so if you are not familiar with command lines, it may take a while. But don't worry, I'm also not familiar with command lines, I tried a few times, and I did it. And approches may change when you read this, so if you meet some problems, do some searches, I believe it won't be hard.

The last problem I met is deploying my model to web application. First I tried Binder, but for some reasons, Binder can't run my jupyter notebook well, I modified my requirements file a few times, none of them worked. Then I searched in the forum, some people met the same problem, but I didn't find a solution, but they mentiond another approach to deploy model, it's heroku. So I switched to heroku, at first still didn't succeed, but after a few tries, it did, and it's not difficult at all. It really took me some time to deploy my model to a web app, but it worth, I'm so delighted when I saw my model run on web. Hope you find my experiences helpful, good luck with your deep learning journey!
